chore(docs): document how to debug cdktf programs (#1758)
hashicorp/terraform-cdk: website/docs/cdktf/debugging.mdx

---
page_title: Debugging
description: >-
  Turn on logging and troubleshoot problems in your CDKTF application.
---

# Debugging

To debug your CDKTF application, we recommend first turning on logging. Then, determine whether the issue occurs when your configuration is synthesized or at runtime.

## Logging

Set the `CDKTF_LOG_LEVEL` environment variable to `debug`. This produces more detailed information about each execution step. If you want to create a bug report or share the result, write the logs to a file by setting `CDKTF_LOG_FILE_DIRECTORY` to the file path where you want CDKTF to write the `cdktf.log` file.

> ## Synth-time issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Synth-Time Issues
```

When you run `cdktf synth`, CDKTF translates your CDKTF application code into a JSON Terraform configuration file. Your application has a synth-time issue if `cdktf synth` fails. Otherwise, assume the issue occurs at execution time.

> When you encounter a synth issue, you should first identify the construct that is causing the error. The error message thrown might hint you towards it, if not you will need to search for it. If you have a last version that successfully synthesized you can search through the new changes, otherwise you need to search through all changes. To search it you can repeatedly run `cdktf synth` and comment parts out until you find the error. The synthesized code does not need to make any logical sense since we don't plan to apply it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you encounter a synth issue, you must identify the construct causing the error. Check the error message for information about which construct is affected. If you cannot determine this from the error message, you must search the synthesized configuration. 

We recommend repeatedly running `cdktf synth` with different sections of the application file commented out until you find the error. If possible, focus your search on changes since the last time you successfully synthesized the application. 
```

> Once you find the construct causing the problem you need to try to isolate the problem. If you use variables in your constructs configuration, try to temporarily replace them with static values to ensure the problem is on the construct itself. If the problem persists try looking at the type to identfy missing or mistyped fields. Looking at the resource in the Terraform provider might help to understand the structure better as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you find the problem, you must isolate it. If you use variables in your constructs configuration, try to temporarily replace them with static values to ensure the problem is with the construct itself. If the problem persists, examine the type to identify missing or mistyped fields. We also recommend consulting each infrastructure provider's documentation to ensure that you included all required attributes, adhered to formatting requirements, etc.
```

> ## Execution-time issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Execution-Time Issues
```

> Execution-time issues can arise from misconfigured synthesized code or from the provider itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execution-time issues happen when Terraform cannot successfully provision infrastructure with the synthesized configuration file. They can occur when you misconfigure Terraform resources in your CDKTF application, resulting in a misconfigured or incomplete Terraform configuration. They can also occur because of issues with the infrastructure provider itself. 
```

> As a first step you can check if the synthesized code looks like you would expect it. You can check through the Terraform documentation for the resource to see if there are misconfigured values. You can also search for the resource name, Terraform and the error to find issues Terraform users had with the resource or look at the providers Github repository for issues similar to yours. Keep in mind that in CDKTF renames resources and fields in most languages to be camel case, whereas Terraform uses snake case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you encounter an execution-time issue, we recommend first examining the synthesized code. Review the Terraform documentation for the resource to see if there are misconfigured values. Remember that CDKTF renames resources and fields in most languages must be camel case, whereas Terraform uses snake case.

You can also search for the resource name, Terraform, and the error to find similar issues in user forums or look at the provider's Github repository for related issues. 
```

> If this does not help, please create an issue in the [hashicorp/terraform-cdk](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug%2C+new&template=bug-report.md&title=) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
page_title: Debugging
description: >-
  Learn how to troubleshoot problems in your CDKTF application.
---

# Debugging

## Increasing the verbosity

> To get more information about what CDKTF is doing and what problems have occured by setting the `CDKTF_LOG_LEVEL` environment variable to `DEBUG`. If you want to share the logs you can set `CDKTF_LOG_FILE_DIRECTORY` to a file path, a `cdktf.log` file with all logs will be written.

Reviewer 2: The `## CDKTF_LOG_LEVEL` section in the environment variable docs case it as `debug`, we should use the lower case version everywhere.

Reviewer 2: (resolved by one of your commits)

> To get more information about what CDKTF is doing and what problems have occured by setting the `CDKTF_LOG_LEVEL` environment variable to `DEBUG`. If you want to share the logs you can set `CDKTF_LOG_FILE_DIRECTORY` to a file path, a `cdktf.log` file with all logs will be written.

Reviewer 2: Grammar seems a bit off here "to get more information ... by setting"

Reviewer 2: Also as the logs are not shared automatically, maybe change that part to "if you want the logs written to a file, ..."

## Troubleshooting

> To understand where the problem is coming from it's a good first step to see if it's a synth-time issue or an execution-time issue.

Reviewer 2: Nice guidance with this and the next sections

> If `cdktf synth` fails you have a synth-time issue, otherwise it's an execution-time issue.

Reviewer: I actually wonder if we even need the nesting here --> What if we just had synth time and execution time issues as Level 2 headings. 

## Logging

## Synth Issues

## Execution Issues

### Synth-time issues

> The most important thing is to understand which construct is causing the problem. The error message thrown might hint you towards it, if not you will need to search for it. If you have a last version that successfully synthesized you can search through the new changes, otherwise you need to search through all changes. To search it you need to repeatedly run `cdktf synth` and comment parts out until you find the error. The synthesized code does not need to make any logical sense since we don't plan to apply it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most important thing is to understand which construct is causing the problem. The error message thrown might hint you towards it, if not you will need to search for it. If you have a last version that successfully synthesized you can search through the new changes, otherwise you need to search through all changes. To search it you can repeatedly run `cdktf synth` and comment parts out until you find the error. The synthesized code does not need to make any logical sense since we don't plan to apply it.
```

nit: need to sounds a bit harsh, but might just be me

> Once you find the construct causing the problem you need to try to isolate the problem. If you use variables in your constructs configuration, try to temporarily replace them with static values to ensure the problem is on the construct itself. If the problem persists try looking at the type to identfy missing or mistyped fields. Looking at the resource in the terraform provider might help to understand the structure better as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you find the construct causing the problem you need to try to isolate the problem. If you use variables in your constructs configuration, try to temporarily replace them with static values to ensure the problem is on the construct itself. If the problem persists try looking at the type to identfy missing or mistyped fields. Looking at the resource in the Terraform provider might help to understand the structure better as well.
```

If this does not help, please create an issue in the [hashicorp/terraform-cdk](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug%2C+new&template=bug-report.md&title=) repository.

### Execution-time issues

Execution-time issues can arise from misconfigured synthesized code or from the provider itself.

> As a first step you can check if the synthesized code looks like you would expect it. You can check through the Terraform documentation for the resource to see if there are misconfigured values. You can also search for the resource name, terraform and the error to find issues Terraform users had with the resource or look at the providers github repository for issues similar to yours. Keep in mind that in CDKTF renames resources and fields in most languages to be camel case, whereas terraform uses snake case.

Reviewer 2: Users unfamiliar with HCL might not know what to expect

Reviewer 2: Maybe @laurapacilio can help? Else I'd be fine with leaving this as is, as this is quite an advanced topic already.

> As a first step you can check if the synthesized code looks like you would expect it. You can check through the Terraform documentation for the resource to see if there are misconfigured values. You can also search for the resource name, terraform and the error to find issues Terraform users had with the resource or look at the providers github repository for issues similar to yours. Keep in mind that in CDKTF renames resources and fields in most languages to be camel case, whereas terraform uses snake case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a first step you can check if the synthesized code looks like you would expect it. You can check through the Terraform documentation for the resource to see if there are misconfigured values. You can also search for the resource name, Terraform and the error to find issues Terraform users had with the resource or look at the providers Github repository for issues similar to yours. Keep in mind that in CDKTF renames resources and fields in most languages to be camel case, whereas Terraform uses snake case.
```

If this does not help, please create an issue in the [hashicorp/terraform-cdk](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug%2C+new&template=bug-report.md&title=) repository.

## Common problems

### CDKTF CLI and library are on different versions

If you are using the CDKTF CLI and library on different versions you are likely to run into problems.
A newer library version might expect data from the CLI being passed to the program.
A newer CLI version might generate provider bindings generated in `cdktf get` that rely on functionality the older library does not support.

To check if these versions align you can use the `cdktf debug` command, the output might look like this:

```
language: typescript
cdktf-cli: 0.11.0
node: v16.13.1
cdktf: 0.10.0
constructs: 10.0.63
jsii: null
terraform: 1.1.8
arch: x64
os: darwin 21.4.0
```

As you can see the `cdktf-cli` version is newer than the `cdktf` version. This means you either need to downgrade the CLI version or update the library version.

## What to do if nothing helped

> You can ask about your problem in the [cdk.dev](https://cdk.dev/) slack in the `#terraform-cdk` channel. Alternatively you can open an issue in the [hashicorp/terraform-cdk](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug%2C+new&template=bug-report.md&title=) repository.

Reviewer 2: We should also mention Discuss here, possibly even first.

---
page_title: Debugging
description: >-
  Turn on logging and troubleshoot problems in your CDKTF application.
---

# Debugging

> To debug your CDKTF application, we recommend first turning on logging. Then, determine whether the issue occurs when your configuration is synthesized or at runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To debug your CDKTF application, we recommend first turning on logging. Then, determine whether the issue occurs when your configuration is synthesized or when Terraform attempts to provision your infrastructure.
```

We recommend repeatedly running `cdktf synth` with different sections of the application file commented out until you find the error. If possible, focus your search on changes since the last time you successfully synthesized the application. 

Once you find the problem, you must isolate it. If you use variables in your constructs configuration, try to temporarily replace them with static values to ensure the problem is with the construct itself. If the problem persists, examine the type to identify missing or mistyped fields. We also recommend consulting each infrastructure provider's documentation to ensure that you included all required attributes, adhered to formatting requirements, etc.

## Execution-Time Issues

Execution-time issues happen when Terraform cannot successfully provision infrastructure with the synthesized configuration file. They can occur when you misconfigure Terraform resources in your CDKTF application, resulting in a misconfigured or incomplete Terraform configuration. They can also occur because of issues with the infrastructure provider itself. 

> When you encounter an execution-time issue, we recommend first examining the synthesized code. Review the Terraform documentation for the resource to see if there are misconfigured values. Remember that CDKTF renames resources and fields in most languages must be camel case, whereas Terraform uses snake case.
> 
> You can also search for the resource name, Terraform, and the error to find similar issues in user forums or look at the provider's Github repository for related issues. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

When you encounter an execution-time issue, we recommend first examining the synthesized code. Review the Terraform documentation for the resource to see if there are misconfigured values. Remember that CDKTF renames resources and fields in most languages must be camel case, whereas Terraform uses snake case. You can also search for the resource name, Terraform, and the error to find similar issues in user forums and search the provider's Github repository for related issues. 
```

## Common problems

### CDKTF CLI and library are on different versions

> We recommend keeping CDKTF CLI and the CDKTF library on the same version.
> A newer library version might expect data from the CLI being passed to the program.
> A newer CLI version might generate provider bindings generated in `cdktf get` that rely on functionality the older library does not support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend keeping CDKTF CLI and the CDKTF library on the same version. A newer library version might expect the CLI to pass additional or different data to your CDKTF application. A newer CLI version might generate provider bindings in `cdktf get` that rely on functionality that the older library does not support.
```

## Synth-time issues

The most important thing is to understand which construct is causing the problem. The error message thrown might hint you towards it, if not you will need to search for it. If you have a last version that successfully synthesized you can search through the new changes, otherwise you need to search through all changes. To search it you can repeatedly run `cdktf synth` and comment parts out until you find the error. The synthesized code does not need to make any logical sense since we don't plan to apply it.

Once you find the construct causing the problem you need to try to isolate the problem. If you use variables in your constructs configuration, try to temporarily replace them with static values to ensure the problem is on the construct itself. If the problem persists try looking at the type to identfy missing or mistyped fields. Looking at the resource in the Terraform provider might help to understand the structure better as well.

If this does not help, please create an issue in the [hashicorp/terraform-cdk](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug%2C+new&template=bug-report.md&title=) repository.

> ## Execution-time issues

Author: To me runtime has a different conotation, in the programming context a runtime is a set term and if I'd apply it to our domain I would expect features like dynamic construct creation that CDKTF does not support. Not sure if that's only me, @ansgarm what do you think?

Execution-time issues can arise from misconfigured synthesized code or from the provider itself.

> As a first step you can check if the synthesized code looks like you would expect it. You can check through the Terraform documentation for the resource to see if there are misconfigured values. You can also search for the resource name, Terraform and the error to find issues Terraform users had with the resource or look at the providers Github repository for issues similar to yours. Keep in mind that in CDKTF renames resources and fields in most languages to be camel case, whereas Terraform uses snake case.

Author: > Are there any common ways that CDKTF can misconfigure the code?

There is no common way I'd say. CDKTF synthesizes what you tell it to synthesize, but you might have skipped reading through the provider documentation or you might have used the wrong name for your AMI or what not. There are unlimited possibilities to what could happen. It's a bit like basic programming debugging, does the output look like what I'd expect it to be.

> ill folks get error messages from Terraform itself along with CDKTF-specific errors?

They get the full terraform logs and if possible we annotate the cdktf construct path to the individual resources.

> is that something that can cause problems with the config? Or are you telling users that so they can know to ignore it when they're reviewing the code for errors?

in 99% of the cases this is a synth time problem since the compiler or JSII will tell you about it. It's not a source or errors, but more sth that could be confusing to users, like "I put 'clusterOptions' into my cdktf program but I can't find it in the JSON --> because it's 'cluster_options' in the JSON"

If this does not help, please create an issue in the [hashicorp/terraform-cdk](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-cdk/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug%2C+new&template=bug-report.md&title=) repository.

> ## Common problems

Author: I'd love to have this, but for the one problem here right now (CDKTF CLI and library are on different versions) there is no such thing. The error will look different for every new CDKTF version / every combination of CLI / library versions 😢 We added some warnings in the CLI though, so I hope we catch them before they need this page
